Reference:
-----------
By Nadia Alshahwan and Mark Harman, 2011. Automated Web Application Testing Using Search Based Software Engineering. In ASE '11 Proceedings of the 2011 26th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. [Link](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/mharman/ase11-na.pdf)

ii: Keywords:
------------------
#### ii1: Search based Software Engineering: 
Is an approach to convert SE problems into optimization problems, which can then be solved by searching optimal solution(s) in the search space. 

#### ii2: Fitness function: 
Fitness function is a formal function used to compare the solutions generated by search algorithm. 

#### ii3: Alternating Variable Method(AVM): 
Is a way of search in which we make changes to one input variable by keeping all the input variables fixed. If mutation to a selected variable  improves fitness value, we try to accelerate change in same direction. The process is repeated for each variable until the optimum solution is achieved or no further improvement is possible.

#### ii4: Static Constant Seeding(SCS) & Dynamically Mined Value(DMV) Seeding: 
* Seeding is used to initialize the input vector in the search process. 
* In Static Constant Seeding(SCS), we initialize the inputs by constants that are derived from the domain knowledge of source code. 
* In DMV, we mine the source code in runtime to generate the values for input vector. Web application contains a lot of information about the input values in the dynamically generated HTML for e.g: valid input might be present as a list of drop down values. We extract these values during runtime to generate the input vector.


iii: Artifacts:
---------------
#### iii1. Motivational statements:
Manual testing of the Web application is tedious but very important task. Search based Software engineering can help to generate test cases automatically. Although search based software engineering is used for test generation of traditional standalone application, web applications presents us with its own challenges. There are 4 main challenges faced for automatic test generation in web applications - 
* **No consistent interface definition in the web page:** There is no specification regarding how many i/p the program accepts or what are their type.
* **Dynamic typing:** No information is present regarding data type of inputs
* **Identification of top level pages of application:** for user simulation of the applicattion, we have to know the start page of the web application
* **Dynamic includes of other pages:** The include name can be decided on runtime.

#### iii2. Hypothesis:

#### iii3. Statistical tests: 

#### iii4. Informative visualizations:

iv: Improvements:
-------------
#### iv1:

#### iv2:

#### iv3: